The computer actually works, and honestly, this model is probably going to be accurate enough. If you don't go into systems, this and maybe one other course (or even just this) will be sufficient. 

But I do want to get the consents or let you know that not all this is just hard-coded truth - that's actually true for pretty much every course you take, to a lesser extent. But I still want to make it clear, and even with these slides, I'm already quote unquote lying to you if you start going into educational theory and shit. The idea of a ladder, that you just go up the ladder and then you have learned, ta-da, I am smarter now, is not really true. 

It's not a linear progression. IQ is just a number. 

Yes, it was. If you go take a look at the original IQ tests, you'll see how horseshit they were originally. But we still spent a lot of money on it. 

So anyways, this latter stuff is a good metaphor. And we could go into discussions about whether these are really lies if I tell you about them. I'm not going to go into that. I will just show a couple more memes that I found with money. This goes beyond the course. Basic math, he said "square root of negative 1 is not real". And he learned, oh, it is real. Basic physics, 3 states. Now, there's a lot of states of matter. And biology here for gender renos, there's a lot more than two genders. And sex is not gender. And all this crap. If we go to this version of the comic, we have this as well. When we're a kid, we tell you, oh, solid liquid gas. Not really the full truth, right? There's a lot of things we told you when you were younger that are not actually true. And so they'll prepare you for the course, just letting you know, not all this is going to be fully true. 

/happy. Hopefully you actually enjoy this because, if you're majoring in CS or EE, you're kind of setting yourself up for the next 40 years of your life. So hopefully you enjoy this. To spend a substantial amount of time coding. This is a coding class. There are a couple of homeworks that are handwritten, but I'm really trying to get you prepared and better at coding. from higher level languages is a lot of things that exist in Java and OCaml do not exist in C. And we either have to make it ourselves or they do not exist at all. And so you have to keep track of a lot of state in this. Raise your hand if you've taken 262. Oh wow, a lot more than I thought. Okay, then that should help with it because don't we find out state machines in there, right? Find out state machines I think are great. I wish that everyone learned that   in 160 instead of whatever in there. Boolean logic. And a little bit of discrete math and finite state machines would be nice but it is not required. Do not worry, you will be fine if you have not taken 262. I just think it would be better to take 262 earlier instead of 160. Okay, learning objectives. You're going to learn, as I said, how computer works as a physical machine, how the previous point may affect the code we write now that we know how it works as a physical machine.   Experience writing programming projects from scratch. This is not clear from the course catalog, but this is one of the implicit points that I've been told over the course of teaching this course. This is the course where you start learning how to write programs from scratch. And that can be a lot for some students, but hopefully it helps. Experience writing C code and understanding how it's different from other languages. C is great. What is memory computer programming? You can go to the website if you want to see more. 

Well, I already have the course plan, I just don't count them. There's going to be in-lecture activities. As Ash said, there's going to be some TAs who will actually come to lecture and walk around and answer questions while we're doing activities. These activities will also count towards participation, which I'll talk about in a second. There will also be optional recitations that the TAs will hold. What time will they be? I don't know. We need to get a room first. But as soon as they're up and running, we will let you know. You do not have   to attend these. They do count towards participation. I'll get to participation in a little bit though. But the idea with this is it's supposed to ideally teach you things in a different way than how we taught them in lecture. To try to give you another way to understand things. And also give you preparation for the assignments and exams. There will also be check-in quizzes. Quizzes is in quotation marks here. Before the first lecture of the week, so Tuesday every week,   there will be a check-in quiz that will be three to five maybe six questions. And there are unlimited attempts and they will tell you when you are correct. So that's why I say quiz in quotation marks. The whole point of this is to make sure that you're staying up at least a little bit up to date with the lectures and aren't falling too far behind. Because there is no makeup policy for these. If you miss one, you miss one. We just drop the lowest two. And if   the lowest two ones are two that you missed, that's okay. Okay. Did I already talk about? Okay. Homework assignments. These will be due every week roughly. About 11, actually there's like 11/12. I split the last one into two parts because there's sort of a milestone because it's a big one. But this will be due roughly every week. Most are programming, three are main written. There's a very flexible late policy. I'll talk about that in a second.   There will be two exams. They will both be in person and written. One page of notes for the first one, two page of notes for the second one. The midterm will be shortly after fall break. You can go to the course website, it's on the calendar where it is. And the final exam will be during the final exam period, whenever that is. I will tell you if I knew where it was or when it was, I do not know. I find out what the final exam is the same time it's released to students. And then we have a clodder policy, I'll get to that in a second. Well, I already have the course plan, I just don't count them. There are going to be in-lecture activities. As Ash said, there are going to be some TAs who will actually come to lecture and walk around and answer questions while we're doing activities. These activities will also count towards participation, which I'll talk about in a second. There will also be optional recitations that the TAs will hold. What time will they be? I don't know. We need to get a room first. But as soon as they're up and running, we will let you know. You do not have to attend these. They do count towards participation. I'll get to participation in a little bit though.

The idea with this is it's supposed to ideally teach you things in a different way than how we taught them in lecture. To try to give you another way to understand things. And also give you preparation for the assignments and exams. There will also be check-in "quizzes" before the first lecture of the week, so Tuesday every week. There will be a check-in quiz that will be 3-6 questions. And there are unlimited attempts, and they will tell you when you are correct. The whole point of this is to make sure that you're staying up at least a little bit up to date with the lectures and aren't falling too far behind. Because there is no makeup policy for these. If you miss one, you miss one. We just drop the lowest two. The lowest two ones are two that you missed, that's okay.

Okay, did I already talk about homework assignments? Okay, homework assignments. These will be due every week roughly. About 11:30/12:00. I split the last one into two parts because there's sort of a milestone because it's a big one. But this will be due roughly every week. Most are programming, three are main written. There's a very flexible late policy. I'll talk about that in a second. There will be two exams. They will both be in-person and written. One page of notes for the first one, two pages of notes for the second one. The midterm will be shortly after fall break. You can go to the course website, it's on the calendar where it is. And the final exam will be during the final exam period, whenever that is. I will tell you if I knew where it was or when it was, I do not know. I find out what the final exam is the same time it's released to students. And then we have a clodder policy, I'll get to that in a second. There's also no official textbook, but there are some suggested ones on the course website if you would like Office hours, these are starting soon. Pretty much all of them will be in Levine 501, those are the tables, that's right by the elevator on the fifth floor of Levine Hall. If you want, you can follow me after lecture and I'll show you where they are. I'll also show you where me and Noel's offices are if you need to know where our offices are. Because we will probably host our own office hours in our own offices. They should be every day of the week in the evenings. TBD, because we're still figuring out which TAs will take which time slots. We also have one-on-ones, these are a way for you to reach out for help if office hours are not sufficient or you have something sensitive to talk about. You can request one with Noel, one with me, or there will eventually be a form so you can request ones from specific TAs if you want. These are not meant to replace office hours, but if you have, I don't know, are extremely anxious in social situations, or you just have a lot of work to do, or you have a lot of work to do and you just can't make the office hours time, or X, Y, and Z, these are available, but hopefully they do not replace actual office hours. You should go to office hours. Office hours are really beneficial towards attending in person because you get to hear everyone else working on similar problems, and you'll probably, oftentimes, a TA will answer someone else's question, a conceptual question, and it will be the same question you were about to ask. And we can process people a lot faster. You also get to meet people there, and that's why I met a couple of my ex-girlfriends when I was a student. 

Go back to the leadership, please. Course-wide participation is 3% of your grade. You get credit for:

- Attending lectures
- Doing the polls
- Going to recitations
- Participating in Ed
- Going to office hours

Me and Hillel keep the grade for it secret. We won't tell you how you did. If you want to know how it affected your grade at the end of the semester, we can tell you, but I'll also say it is an extremely low bar to get full credit. If you are trying to participate at all, then you will probably get full credit. More policies: Homework late policy: Late days are given on request and they are usually granted (pretty much always granted). There is no cap on the number of late days per assignment, meaning that if you want to submit homework zero at the end of the semester, you can. We are really flexible on our late days and there is no late penalty for it. We still have normal late deadlines though, because while we have this policy, every single person who puts it off to the end of the semester don't do well in the course. You might say, "Well then why do you do this policy?" It's still helpful for some people who want to go back and fix one or two assignments. Just don't put them all off. You need to keep up with what you do in the course, otherwise you will fall behind. And not that many people put everything off to the end, at least not much more than what I noticed in normal versions of the course, with the normal late policy. So, we've had that flexibility for you. We are trying to make sure that by the end of the course, what was your understanding of the material. That's why we have that flexibility. Big red thing, though, we have three written assignments. We have a maximum of three late days for those, 72 hours. Why is that? Because the other ones are auto-graded and this takes a while to grade, actually, especially because we need to get the solutions back to you so you can use it to study for the midterm. Because two of them happen before the midterm. And also the end of the semester is the end unless there's really something special going on. So when the end of the semester happens, I'm not going to do extensions past that. I have a life, too.

subsection on the final. If you do better on the midterm section of the final, we will overwrite your midterm grade to be better, to show the growth that you have done. It does not work the reverse. If you fuck up on the final exam, that does not show growth, that shows degrowth, and we will keep it that way. But, this policy is there. Yeah. Okay, what are our policies? Collaboration policy. We grade, all the handwritten ones are graded carefully by TAs, so we will notice some of the cheating in there. We also use MOSS to try to detect it, and it is successfully used in several classes at Penn. I'm not going to lie, it's not always perfect, but it works pretty good, and we usually catch a couple people every semester. It's also the most depressing part of this job. Do not make me deal with cheating cases, please. I will hate it. Especially when we have that late policy. Just do it later. Please.   If we catch you, zero on the assignments, and if we catch you again, add them to class. That counts if you did the assignments yourself, fully, correctly, and then gave it to someone else. Even though you didn't have to cheat to complete your assignment, you have enabled someone else to cheat. Do not do it. There's also generative AI. I don't like that shit. I'm skeptical   of how useful it is. One, because it's really bad at writing C code, actually. This was like a year ago. I asked it to write a program to ask your name, read it in from the terminal, and print it back out. And it is unsafe if your name is longer than 10 characters. It might have gotten better since then. But another big reason not to use this is because it's not good for your understanding.   of the language. As hopefully you can see by our late policy, we really, really care that by the end of the semester, you learn what you're supposed to learn. That is the most important thing for us. And I don't want to say all uses of AI aren't beneficial towards learning, but most of the ones that I see are not. So please don't use it. There are some articles on the topic. You'll notice it's from AISnakeOil.com.   I am generally skeptical of AI. So I don't ban it outright because I know it is useful in a handful of cases. Like in particular, if you want to ask a really high level conceptual question, like what is the purpose of header guards in a C header file? It will probably give a good answer for that. So will Google and so will the TAs. So probably just ask them. But I know there are use cases   that will not help you with your overall grade and happiness because you will get a lifelong feeling of satisfaction from completing this course and learn all that you need from this course. We give a lot of help to make sure everyone gets through the course. And also, if you can't explain your code in office hours, we have the permission to just turn you away. This is only for really egregious cases. If you have confusion, you can still come. Or if you don't understand If we catch you zeroing on the assignments, and if we catch you again, add them to class. That counts if you did the assignments yourself, fully, correctly, and then gave it to someone else. Even though you didn't have to cheat to complete your assignment, you have enabled someone else to cheat. Do not do it.

There's also generative AI. I don't like that shit. I'm skeptical of how useful it is (one because it's really bad at writing C code, actually). This was like a year ago. I asked it to write a program to ask your name, read it in from the terminal, and print it back out. And it is unsafe if your name is longer than 10 characters. It might have gotten better since then. But another big reason not to use this is because it's not good for your understanding of the language. As hopefully you can see by our late policy, we really, really care that by the end of the semester, you learn what you're supposed to learn. That is the most important thing for us. And I don't want to say all uses of AI aren't beneficial towards learning, but most of the ones that I see are not. So please don't use it. There are some articles on the topic. You'll notice it's from AISnakeOil.com. I am generally skeptical of AI. So I don't ban it outright because I know it is useful in a handful of cases. Like in particular, if you want to ask a really high-level conceptual question, like "What is the purpose of header guards in a C header file?" It will probably give a good answer for that. So will Google and so will the TAs. So probably just ask them. But I know there are use cases that will not help you with your overall grade and happiness because you will get a lifelong feeling of satisfaction from completing this course and learn all that you need from this course. We give a lot of help to make sure everyone gets through the course. And also, if you can't explain your code in office hours, we have the permission to just turn you away. This is only for really egregious cases. If you have confusion, you can still come. Or if you don't understand why your C code is doing X, all because it's doing something illegal or undefined, you can still come for that. But if you wrote it with AI or copied off someone else, be sure to be able to explain how you got to the code there without saying that you did AI because we will just mark that down. The other thing is that this course, there's a reason it's required for the, not the minor, but BAS and BSC. And ESC and a bunch of other things. This stuff is foundational for pretty much every programmer. Not all of it, but most of it, right? And so, why are you spending four years and $70,000 a year here if you're just going to cheat through it? We are begging you not to cheat. Please do not. We really want you to learn and get your money's worth. Okay. There's also this crap. You have five seconds to look at it before I go to the next slide. Five. have confusion, you can still come. Or if you don't understand why your C code is doing X, all because it's doing something illegal or undefined, you can still come for that. But if you wrote it with AI or copied off someone else, be sure to be able to explain how you got to the code there without saying that you did AI because we will just mark that down. The other thing is that this course, there's a reason it's required for the, not the minor, but BAS and BSC. And ESC and a bunch of other things. This stuff is foundational for pretty much every programmer. Not all of it, but most of it, right? And so, why are you spending four years and $70,000 a year here if you're just going to cheat through it? We are begging you not to cheat. Please do not. We really want you to learn and get your money's worth. Okay. There's also this crap. You have five seconds to look at it before I go to the next slide. 

and if that fails spec lab is something that you can remotely log into these are cluster of computers that are maintained by the engineering department and you can use that to complete your homework assignments. Do not use the ENIAC machines. This is not as big a problem for this course but in operating systems ENIAC is used for a lot of things. If you do your programming assignments on there one of the advantages of low-level programming is you can really fuck things up if you if you try and also   if you don't try right and so what has happened in the past in operating systems is that someone's working on their assignment and oh no no one can log into ENIAC anymore and a lot of course websites and a lot of everything don't work anymore. They actually monitor this now to make sure no students are developing their C code on here anymore. Do not do this. In the past I gave F's to people who did this. That seems a little harsh.   don't do this or I'll be very upset. Okay we're getting through there. Getting help is really important in this course. We know it can be a lot. We know we're throwing a lot of topics at you. It's really important that you feel supported and are supported. We have ED which is where we will be making announcements. I will pretty much never email you unless I'm emailing you individually about something. So course announcements will be on ED. Ask and answer questions there. Sign up if you haven't already.   and you automatically collect analytics on there. And also I can tell when you don't open it until week 10. So do that. Office hours can be found on the front page of the course website on the calendar. Starts next week for all TAs. We might have some this week if we can get things organized and some TAs want to. One on ones, well we talked about that before. But one of the points is that we care. I said this earlier but I'm saying it again. We care that you learn things.   There is a lot of things going on in the course. There are a lot of things we're still trying out. But we want you to have the best experience possible and hope that you actually grow from this. So if something comes up, even if it's outside the course, please feel free to reach out about it. We will try our best to accommodate students and we do accommodate students. So if something comes up do that. Do not do academic misconduct. That is the worst part of this job. Getting help is really important in this course. We know it can be a lot, we know we're throwing a lot of topics at you. It's really important that you feel supported and are supported.

We have ED, which is where we will be making announcements. I will pretty much never email you unless I'm emailing you individually about something. So course announcements will be on ED. Ask and answer questions there. Sign up if you haven't already.

And if that fails, SpecLab is something that you can remotely log into - these are clusters of computers maintained by the Engineering Department. You can use that to complete your homework assignments. Do not use the ENIAC machines. This is not as big a problem for this course, but in Operating Systems, ENIAC is used for a lot of things. If you do your programming assignments on there, one of the advantages of low-level programming is you can really screw things up if you try. If you don't try right, and so what has happened in the past in operating systems is that someone's working on their assignment and oh no, no one can log into ENIAC anymore, and a lot of course websites and a lot of everything don't work anymore. They actually monitor this now to make sure no students are developing their C code on here anymore. Do not do this. In the past I gave F's to people who did this. That seems a little harsh. Don't do this or I'll be very upset. You automatically collect analytics on there. And also I can tell when you don't open it until week 10. So do that.

Office hours can be found on the front page of the course website on the calendar. Starts next week for all TAs. We might have some this week if we can get things organized and some TAs want to. One-on-ones, well we talked about that before. But one of the points is that we care. I said this earlier but I'm saying it again. We care that you learn things. There is a lot of things going on in the course. There are a lot of things we're still trying out. But we want you to have the best experience possible and hope that you actually grow from this. So if something comes up, even if it's outside the course, please feel free to reach out about it. We will try our best to accommodate students and we do accommodate students. So if something comes up do that. Do not do academic misconduct. That is the worst part of this job. to deal with. And it's not fun for you either. You know, sometimes they make you go to court? They have a courtroom or some shit at Penn. And you bring up evidence in front of it? It is a huge... I was gonna say waste of time, but that might be too harsh. But it is draining my soul to do that. Please do not do this. Read more on academic integrity in the syllabus. We are here to help you, though. Okay, that was a fuckton of policy. Here's the part where we spend like... what time is it now? 221? So that means we've got, what, 55 minutes? 

Risk5 assembly